---
title: "Microsoft Ignite the Tour Toronto Recap"
date: 2020-01-11T21:43:04-04:00
draft: false
description : "Summary review of Microsoft Ignite the Tour Conference in Toronto in January 2020"
tags : [
    "Azure",
    "Microsoft",
    "Microsoft Ignite the Tour",
    "Toronto",
    "Recap"
]
author: "Borko"
authorLink: "https://www.b3o.ca"
featuredImage: "featured-image"
featuredImagePreview: "featured-image"
resources:
- name: "featured-image"
  src: "featured-image.jpg"
- name: "featured-image"
  src: "featured-image.jpg"

lightgallery: true

toc:
  auto: false
---
[Microsoft Ignite the
Tour](https://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/ignite-the-tour/) conference is a
two-day version of Microsoft's annual Ignite technology conference that
Microsoft is bringing to a number of cities around the world. Last week
I had the opportunity to attend the conference in
[Toronto](https://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/ignite-the-tour/toronto). As
usual at these types of events, there was ‚ÄúThe Hub‚Äù, a central meeting
place where large number of sponsors had booths set up demonstrating
their products or services and giving out SWAG. The Hub also contained
three theaters that featured 15-minute lightning sessions on technical
topics from Microsoft experts or customer discussion panels. The
conference agenda was also packed with deep-dive breakout sessions on
large variety of topics.

{{< tweet 1215036331518283777 >}}

Learning Paths
--------------

A unique and differentiating aspect of this conference was that the
breakout sessions consisted of [Learning
Paths](https://toronto.myignitetour.techcommunity.microsoft.com/learning-paths).
These were essentially educational sessions connected around a common
theme. Learning Paths focused on several themes, including Dynamics 365,
Microsoft Teams, Windows, AI, Azure, among others. I attended sessions
of the two Learning Path tracks that seemed most pertinent to me,
[Developing cloud native
applications](https://toronto.myignitetour.techcommunity.microsoft.com/learning-paths/84649)
and [Modernizing web applications and
data](https://toronto.myignitetour.techcommunity.microsoft.com/learning-paths/84658).

Each Learning Path breakout session aimed its attention at a different
technical aspect, e.g. migrating data, compute or data storage services,
operations, etc. Another interesting and unique element of the learning
paths is that they were all linked via a common story dealing with a
fictitious company ‚ÄúTailwind Traders‚Äù. Every individual session
presented a scenario that was used to illustrate some technical
capabilities and services provided by Azure. [Tailwind
Traders](https://microsoft.github.io/TailwindTraders/) is a collection
of Azure reference apps used to showcase Azure technology. Although this
scenario-based format is very effective as a teaching method, I think I
would have preferred if breakout sessions involved real-life customer
stories instead.

The sessions were capped at 45 minutes and there was no time for any Q
and A during the sessions. Instead, the presenters were available for Q
and A at the Microsoft Showcase booth in The Hub. I didn't particularly
like this. There is a lot of learning value in hearing questions or
issues brought up by others in the audience and having answers shared
with the entire group.

All breakout sessions used speech to text to provide real-time subtitles
of the presenter lecture. Kudos go to Microsoft for improving
accessibility to the conference sessions in this way. üëç

For myself, the highlights of the breakout sessions were the two
presentations given by Aaron Wislang
([@as\_w](https://twitter.com/as_w)). The first session was [APPS30:
Modernizing Your Application with
Containers](https://github.com/microsoft/ignite-learning-paths-training-apps/tree/master/apps30).
This was followed by a second session on [APPS40: Consolidating
Infrastructure with Azure Kubernetes
Service](https://github.com/microsoft/ignite-learning-paths-training-apps/tree/master/apps40).
Both presentations were very well prepared and adeptly communicated to
the audience. The content of the talks presented a great review of
fundamentals of container technology and an introduction to the related
services in the Azure cloud platform. The demos were also effective in
illustrating the concepts and services discussed in the presentation. I
also recommend visiting [Aaron's
compilation](https://aaronmsft.com/posts/kubernetes/) of useful
Kubernetes resources.

Another notable session I attended was by April Edwards
([@theapriledwards](https://twitter.com/theapriledwards)) titled [MOD50
- Managing Delivery of your App via
DevOps](https://github.com/microsoft/ignite-learning-paths-training-mod/tree/master/mod50).
The talk was very well polished and presented. It provided the audience
a very good introductory overview DevOps and CI/CD. I liked that there
was a focus on people and culture as much as technology. For the
technical aspects, the session presented a good introduction to Azure
DevOps for those not familiar with the platform. It included
demonstrations of Azure DevOps integration with Github Actions, canary
deployments utilizing deployment slots, and approval gates.

Theater Talks
-------------

One of the theater talks with special interest to me was the panel
discussion with the City of Ottawa on transformation and upskilling. The
sessions turned out to be especially popular as there was a very large
audience gathered around the theater area.

{{< tweet 1214997394846298117 >}}

The panel conversation focused on City of Ottawa's digital
transformation journey. The speakers shared insights around challenges
and lessons learned as they adopted Dynamics 365 and Azure platforms to
transform city's public services.

Announcements
-------------

During the conference, Microsoft made a [news
release](https://news.microsoft.com/en-ca/2020/01/09/microsoft-makes-significant-investments-in-canadian-cloud-to-fuel-innovation-in-canada/)
announcing addition of Availability Zones in the Canada Central region
and increased compute capacity in both Canadian regions. This is great
news for Canada and will positively impact cloud adoption here.

{{< tweet 1215277330228228104 >}}

Free Certifications
-------------------

[Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/) section of
the Microsoft Showcase booth was always buzzing with people interested
in finding out more about trainings and certifications offered by
Microsoft. All conference attendees were able to receive an offer for a
free certification exam voucher. I am definitely eager to take advantage
of this on one of my future tests!

Microsoft Reactor - Toronto
---------------------------

Also in the Microsoft Showcase area, I was very excited to learn about
[Microsoft Reactor](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/reactor/)
initiative and its newly opened
[Toronto](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/reactor/Location/Toronto)
location. This seems like a tremendous program and an invaluable
resource. I'd love to see it expanded to more cities in Canada
(especially Ottawa! üòä).

Final Thoughts
--------------

This was my first Microsoft Ignite experience. Although it was two very
busy days, the conference was a very positive experience. It was a great
way to kick off 2020 and I am excited to see where Azure goes over the
next twelve months!